Open Review of Robot Framework® Certified Professional Syllabus (#39)
robotframework/robotframework-RFCP-syllabus: Chapter_1_Introduction.md

## 1.1 Purpose / Use-Cases

> [!IMPORTANT]
> LO-XX Recall the two main Use-Cases of Robot Framework (K1)

Robot Framework is a versatile, open-source automation framework that supports both **test automation** and **robotic process automation (RPA)**.
Initially designed for acceptance testing and other types of testing, it has since evolved to cover various automation tasks in both IT and business environments.
Its keyword-driven approach allows users to create reusable components, making it accessible even to those with minimal programming skills.
Robot Framework can be extended through a vast array of third-party or custom made keyword libraries, allowing it to automate interactions with APIs, user interfaces, databases, and many more technologies.

### 1.1.1 Test Automation

> [!IMPORTANT]
> LO-XX recall the test levels Robot Framework is mostly used for (K1)

Robot Framework is widely used at various levels of testing, primarily focusing on:

> - **System Testing**: Involves verifying the complete, integrated system’s behavior and capabilities. It often includes both functional and non-functional aspects (e.g., performance, usability) and may use simulated components.

Reviewer: It trend to leave out the non-functional aspects in the System Testing. Although it is part of System Testing by definition, it isn't something Robot Framework is mostly used for. That last thing is where this LO is about, so it could be confusing that we state it here.
```suggestion
- **System Testing**: Involves verifying the complete, integrated system’s behavior and capabilities. It often includes both functional and may use simulated components.
```

Author: i do disagree and i do not want to give the direction or hint that RF is not usable for non-functional tests.

Imho it is also often used for that.
But the examples were bad. i changed that to `security` and `accessibility` because these are really done with RF.

@frankvanderkuur

> - **System Testing**: Involves verifying the complete, integrated system’s behavior and capabilities. It often includes both functional and non-functional aspects (e.g., performance, usability) and may use simulated components.

Author: i am fine with that, however a fully integrated system means that all components are integrated in the system. Therefore it is complete. VS integration and component tests where this is not the case.

> - **System Integration Testing**: Concentrates on the interaction between the system under test and external services, ensuring that all integrated parts communicate and function together as expected.

Author: I improved it. However i do disagree that the interaction between services like UI and Backend is a System Integration Test. The UI can not be seen as a whole system. more as a component.
Therefore that would either be an integration test or system tests.
@alexkread

Robot Framework is typically not used for **component testing** and **integration testing** because its primary strength lies in higher-level testing, such as system, acceptance, and end-to-end testing, where behavior-driven and keyword-based approaches excel. Component testing requires low-level, granular tests focusing on individual units of code, often necessitating direct interaction with the codebase, mocking, or stubbing, which are better handled by unit testing frameworks like JUnit, pytest, or NUnit. Similarly, integration testing at a low level often requires precise control over service interactions, such as API stubs or protocol-level testing, which may not align with Robot Framework's abstraction-oriented design. While Robot Framework can technically handle these cases through custom libraries, its overhead and design philosophy make it less efficient compared to tools specifically tailored for low-level and tightly scoped testing tasks.

#### 1.1.1.1 Synthetic Monitoring

> Beyond traditional test levels, **Synthetic Monitoring**, also referred to as **Active Monitoring** or **Proactive Monitoring**, is a proactive approach that simulates user interactions with live systems at regular intervals. It detects performance issues or downtime early and often before they affect actual users by continuously monitoring system behavior under simulated conditions.

Reviewer: I think the last sentence is incorrect. You don't monitor the system under **simulated** conditions. You monitor the actual system, you are only using simulated interactions (which you already explained in the previous sentence

```suggestion
Beyond traditional test levels, **Synthetic Monitoring**, also referred to as **Active Monitoring** or **Proactive Monitoring**, is a proactive approach that simulates user interactions with live systems at regular intervals. It detects performance issues or downtime early. The aim of this is to detect such failure before they affect actual users.
```

> ### 1.1.2 Robotic Process Automation (RPA)

Reviewer: Don't we need a LO for this topic? To me it feels strange that we do have a LO for Testing, but not for RPA.
```suggestion
### 1.1.2 Robotic Process Automation (RPA)
> [!IMPORTANT]
> LO-XX Recall the common use-cases for RPA with Robot Framework (K1)

```

Author: That was exactly my point.
Why should we ask a question about what RPA is?
We are also not asking what testing is.
We just ask which levels of testing are typically used Robot Framework in.

@frankvanderkuur

Robotic Process Automation (RPA) uses software bots to perform tasks and interactions normally done by humans, without requiring changes to the underlying applications.

Robot Framework, with its keyword-driven approach, vast ecosystem of libraries, simplicity, and scalability, is widely adopted for RPA tasks.
Robot Framework allows users to automate most workflows using ready-made keyword libraries that provide a wide range of functionalities. These libraries can be combined and reused in user-defined keywords, making automation simple and efficient. For custom functionalities or more complex tasks, Robot Framework also offers the flexibility to create custom keyword libraries using Python, enabling advanced use cases and seamless integration with unique systems.

Common use cases of RPA with Robot Framework include:

- **Data extraction and manipulation**: Automating data transfers and processing between systems.

> - **Application interaction**: Automating tasks such as form submissions, clicks, and file operations across web or desktop applications.

Reviewer: Isn't the actual use-case for this one: task or proces automation? You achieve this goal by leveraging **application interaction**, but I wouldn't say this is a use-case.

  ```suggestion
- **Task/proces automation**: Automating tasks such as form submissions, clicks, and file operations across web or desktop applications.
```

## 1.2 Architecture of Robot Framework

Robot Framework is an open-source automation framework that allows you to build automation scripts for testing and RPA (Robotic Process Automation).
It focuses on providing a keyword-driven or behavior-driven approach, making the automation easy to understand and maintain.
However, it is not a full-stack solution that encompasses all layers of automation.
Instead, it provides a flexible platform where different tools, libraries, and integrations handle specific tasks to implement a flexible automation solution.

### 1.2.1 Robot Framework and the gTAA (Generic Test Automation Architecture)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> LO-XX Recall the layers of the Generic Test Automation Architecture (gTAA) and their corresponding components in Robot Framework (K1)

The **Generic Test Automation Architecture (gTAA)** described in the ISTQB "Certified Tester Advanced Level Test Automation Engineering" offers a structured approach to test automation, dividing it into different layers for a clear separation of concerns:

> - **Definition Layer**: This layer contains the "Test Data" (test cases, tasks, resource files which include user keywords and variables).

Reviewer: I agree with Alex. The term Test Data is a bit misleading. I think the first suggestion is fine for this part of the syllabus, since the more detailed explanation is covered later in the syllabus.

> - **Definition Layer**: This layer contains the "Test Data" (test cases, tasks, resource files which include user keywords and variables).

Author: @alexkread @frankvanderkuur 
The term "Test Data" is used in the user guide by Pekka multiple times (107).
It is the term that was used to define "everything" that is written in *.robot files.

I also think that this term is ambiguous but it is the "official" term in RF nowadays.
I am fine changing that. Because i think "test data" should more define the values that are used during testing and/or by Data-Driven Testing.

I.e. 
```robotframework 
*** Test Cases ***
Test
    Login User   admin   123456
    Verify Login
```

In that case `admin` and `123456` are the test data imho.

In Robot Framework, the test data is written using the defined syntax and contains keyword calls and argument values that make the test case or task definitions structured in suites.

> Also Editors that offer support for Robot Framework's syntax can be part of this layer.

Reviewer: I'm having trouble with the word CAN here. I think it's better to take a stand here: Do we consider editors that offer RF support part of the definition layer or not? Either we choose to put it in this layer or not. We could also choose to  omit this sentence all together.

- **Execution Layer**: In Robot Framework, the execution layer consists of the framework itself, including its core components and APIs.
It parses and interprets the test data syntax to build an execution model.
The execution is responsible for processing this execution model to execute the library keywords with their argument values, logging results, and generating reports.

- **Adaptation Layer**: This layer provides the connection between Robot Framework and the system under test (SUT).

> In Robot Framework, this is where the keyword libraries, such as those for UI, API, database interactions, or others, are located.

Author: @alexkread 
I added your addition.

However i do disagree that keyword libraries are part of the definition layer.
Their keywords are used there, but in RF, imho only the user code is there.
Python code is part of the adaptation layer.

Lets discuss on Slack if you feel strongly about that.

or detailed and where the amount of keywords called within a test or tasks are more.
Also is this style better for complex tasks or complex data
due to a clear separation between the keyword names and its argument values.

- **Behavior-Driven Style** emphasizes **how the system behaves** from the user's point of view,
using more natural language and focusing on expected outcomes.
It is a **declarative** style that can be compared to writing user stories or acceptance criteria.
It is optimized for **business-oriented** descriptions of functionality
and is often more suitable for communicating with non-technical stakeholders.
This style can get less understandable when the amount of steps increases
or the amount of defined data in the steps increases.

Both styles can be applied within Robot Framework, offering flexibility depending on the context of the automation task.

### 1.4.4 Data-Driven Specification

> [!IMPORTANT]
> LO-XX Recall the purpose of Data-Driven Specification (K1)

**Data-Driven Specification** originates from **Data-Driven Testing**
and is a method where the test data and expected results are
separated from the test script that controls the flow.

> While in **Robotic Process Automation (RPA)** the data that are

Reviewer 2: the data that is used

Reviewer 2: also in line 337 below

used in an automation workflow are typically dynamically acquired from an external source,
in testing the data are specifically chosen to cover different scenarios or cases.
Therefore this method to define data combinations

> statically in the suite files is normally not applicable in RPA.

Reviewer 2: probably "to RPA" might be more grammatically correct here thanks.

- **End-to-End Testing**: Verifies that a complete workflow or process within the system operates as intended, covering all interconnected subsystems, interfaces, and external components. End-to-end tests ensure the correct functioning of the application in real-world scenarios by simulating user interactions from start to finish.

Robot Framework's flexibility and support for external libraries make it an excellent tool for automating these comprehensive test cases, ensuring seamless interaction between components and validating the system's behavior also in production or production-like conditions.

> Robot Framework is typically not used for **component testing** and **integration testing** because its primary strength lies in higher-level testing, such as system, acceptance, and end-to-end testing, where behavior-driven and keyword-based approaches excel. Component testing requires low-level, granular tests focusing on individual units of code, often necessitating direct interaction with the codebase, mocking, or stubbing, which are better handled by unit testing frameworks like JUnit, pytest, or NUnit. Similarly, integration testing at a low level often requires precise control over service interactions, such as API stubs or protocol-level testing, which may not align with Robot Framework's abstraction-oriented design. While Robot Framework can technically handle these cases through custom libraries, its overhead and design philosophy make it less efficient compared to tools specifically tailored for low-level and tightly scoped testing tasks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Robot Framework is typically not used for **component testing** nor **integration testing** because its primary strength lies in higher-level testing, such as system, acceptance, and end-to-end testing, where behavior-driven and keyword-based approaches excel. Component testing requires low-level, granular tests focusing on individual units of code, often necessitating direct interaction with the codebase, mocking, or stubbing, which are better handled by unit testing frameworks like JUnit, pytest, or NUnit. Similarly, integration testing at a low level often requires precise control over service interactions, such as API stubs or protocol-level testing, which may not align with Robot Framework's abstraction-oriented design. While Robot Framework can technically handle these cases through custom libraries, its overhead and design philosophy make it less efficient compared to tools specifically tailored for low-level and tightly scoped testing tasks.
```

The approach of both styles is different in that way,
that the *Behavior-Driven Style* is a **declarative** specification,
where the script describe/declare what the system should do or how it should behave,
while the *Keyword-Driven Style* is an **imperative** specification,
where the script specifies what the automation should do to control the system.

Beside these two different specification approaches how to write/formulate
your automation script and their step sequences,
there is also a third specification method, **Data-Driven Specification** that can be combined
with the other two styles, to define the data that is used in the automation.

### 1.4.1 Keyword-Driven Specification

> [!IMPORTANT]
> LO-1.4.1 Understand the basic concepts of Keyword-Driven Specification (K2)

In **Keyword-Driven Specification**, automation steps are expressed through a sequence of mostly **imperative commands**.
Keywords define the specific actions that must be executed in a particular order, similar to procedural programming.
The emphasis is on the **actions performed by the automation/tester**.

> For example, in Robot Framework, a keyword-driven test might include steps like:

Reviewer 4: Use of four spaces as a separator between keyword and arguments was lost in the final HTML rendering, while that was emphasized just in the previous section. 

```html
<code>Then the page title should be "Foundation | Robot Framework"</code>
```

Author: @datakurre great catch!

Step definitions are written in a programming language (typically Java, JavaScript, Ruby, or Python) and map natural language steps from a Gherkin feature file to code.
Therefore there are no multiple layers of keywords that can be logged into execution protocols.
Robot Framework allows you to create **user keywords** that can further call other user or library keywords, providing greater flexibility, modularity and much more detailed logging.

### 1.4.3 Comparing Keyword-Driven and Behavior-Driven Specification

> [!IMPORTANT]
> LO-1.4.3 Recall the differences between Keyword-Driven and Behavior-Driven Specification (K1)

The core difference between **Keyword-Driven** and **Behavior-Driven** styles lies in their focus:

- **Keyword-Driven Style** emphasizes **what actions** need to be performed in a specific order, making it action-centric.
It is an **imperative** style that can be compared to procedural programming.
It is structured, clear, and optimized for scenarios where the steps are more technical
or detailed and where the amount of keywords called within a test or tasks are more.

> Also is this style better for complex tasks or complex data

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Also this style is better for complex tasks or complex data
```

Therefore, this method of defining data combinations
statically in the suite files is normally not applicable to RPA.

The purpose of **Data-Driven Testing** is to automate the same sequence of actions
or scenario with different sets of input and/or expected output data.

In this style, a single user keyword, which contains the whole test logic or sequence of actions,
is executed with multiple data variations,
making it highly effective for repetitive tests,
where the logic stays the same but the data changes,
without duplicating the test logic for each case.

Robot Framework offers a convenient feature for this approach through **Test Templates**.

**Benefits of Data-Driven Specification**:
- **Efficiency**: Reduces the need to write redundant test cases by reusing the same workflow with different data inputs.
- **Clarity**: Keeps the test logic separate from the data, making it easier to manage large data sets.
- **Scalability**: Suitable for scenarios where the same functionality needs to be tested under various conditions, such as verifying form inputs or performing calculations with different values.

> See [3.4 Data-Driven Specification](Chapter_3_Keyword_Design_Variables_Resources.md#34-data-driven-specification) for more details and examples on Data-Driven Specification.

Reviewer 3: This renders as a link to this same heading (Chrome Version 131.0.6778.265, MacOS Sonoma 14.7.2)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/36ee5e2d-a2de-438e-935f-498a0adc8a22)

- **Platform Maintenance**: The foundation is responsible for maintaining key infrastructure, such as the official website, GitHub repositories, and community platforms. These resources are crucial to sustaining a healthy ecosystem and fostering collaboration among users and contributors.

- **Community Support and Events**: The foundation plays a central role in organizing **RoboCon**, the annual Robot Framework User Conference, which brings together users, developers, and contributors to share knowledge and insights. Additionally, it helps to disseminate knowledge about test automation and RPA through community events and documentation efforts.

- **Funding of Ecosystem Projects**: Whenever possible, the foundation finances open-source projects that are proposed by community members, aiming to support broader ecosystem development and innovation.

> As a non-profit, all funds are directed towards the development and promotion of the Robot Framework, ensuring that it remains accessible to all users without commercial restrictions.

Reviewer 3: "Robot Framework" is a name, so it shouldn't need an article.

```suggestion
As a non-profit association, all funds are directed towards the development and promotion of Robot Framework, ensuring that it remains accessible to all users without commercial restrictions.
```
